.\" Manpage for wclock
.\" Contact (kvngncrlsn@gmail.com) to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "10 September 2021" "0.1.3" "wclock man page"
.SH NAME
.B wclock
\(em check times from around the world in a terminal emulator or tty 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wclock [-t|--there DATETIME -b|--break] SEARCH [-b|--break SEARCH] ...

.B wclock [-l|--local DATETIME -b|--break] SEARCH [-b|--break SEARCH] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wclock
is a shell script for checking times from any time zone while using a tty or terminal emulator. It interfaces with the time zone data in 
.I /usr/share/zoneinfo
(or 
.I /usr/share/zoneinfo-leaps\fR\
, or 
.I /usr/local/share\fR\
, or 
.I /etc\fR\
, throughout) to retrieve the correct time zone, and passes this time zone to 
.B date(1)
to report world times matching a search term.

The search term can be either a city or a country;
.B wclock
will first check 
.I SHAREDIR/wclock/extras
for an exact match. This file contains a selection of cities and metro areas with a population of over 250,000, as well as countries with ISO codes in the tz database. Around 2000 cities and almost every country are searchable in this manner.

The search functionality is case- and punctuation-insensitive, and spaces can be used. For this reason, search terms should not be quoted. As an example, any of the following arguments will produce an exact match with \(lqMazar-e Sharif:\(rq
.TP
.B \t mazar-e sharif
.TQ
.B \t mazare sharif
.TQ
.B \t mazar-e-sharif
.TQ
.B \t mazaresharif
.TQ
.B \t mazar e sharif 

.P
If an exact match is not found, defined time zones are searched. If the exact search term has still not been found, 
.I SHAREDIR/wclock/extras
and the zoneinfo directory are checked once more for non-exact matches. At every stage,
.I SHAREDIR/wclock/compat
is used if the desired time zone is not installed on the system. This is for compatibility with previous versions of 
.B tzdata\fR\
\&.

To fetch times for multiple locations, place 
.B --break (-b)
between the individual search terms.
.B --break
has no effect before the first search term, unless
.B --there (-t)
or 
.B -local (-l)
is used.

.B --there
and
.B --local
pass a 
.B DATETIME
parameter to
.B date(1)\fR\
:

.B \t --there\fR\
: Find your local time at
.B DATETIME
in the
.B SEARCH
time zone.

.B \t --local\fR\
: Find the time in 
.B SEARCH
at
.B DATETIME
in your local time zone.

.P
Because
.B wclock
will add time zone information to
.B DATETIME\fR\
, only the time (and day, if desired) are needed. For more information, see \(lqDATETIME\(rq below;
.B date(1)
is another useful reference. When using
.B --there
and
.B --local\fR\
, any following search arguments will have the specified
.B DATETIME
check, until
.B --there
or
.B --local
is passed again:

.TP
.B \t wclock -t 10:00 next Wed -b glasgow -b kiev
.B \t
#
.B --there
checks for Glasgow and Kiev.

.TP
.B \t wclock glasgow -t 10:00 next Wed -b kiev
.B \t
# 
.B --there
check for Kiev only.

.TP
.B \t wclock -l 16:00 -b glasgow -t 10:00 next Wed -b kiev
.B \t
#
.B --local\fR\
: Glasgow;
.B --there\fR\
: Kiev
.SH COMPATIBILITY
This version of
.B wclock
was written against
.B tzdata-2021c\fR\
\&. However, it should be compatible with past versions of
.B tzdata
to 
.B tzdata-2012a
at the latest. Those time zones added to the database since are accounted for by checks against
.I SHAREDIR/wclock/compat\fR\
\&. Such checks only occur if the given time zone is not installed on the system.

Alternative zoneinfo directory locations and time zone setting files can be passed to
.B wclock
upon installation. This is not necessary in most cases. See
.I DOCDIR/wclock-0.1.3/INSTALL
for details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TQ
.B SEARCH
.br    
A search term for the desired time; this can be a time zone as named in
.I /usr/share/zoneinfo\fR\
, a city included in
.I SHAREDIR/wclock/extras\fR\
, or a country.

.TQ
.B -b|--break
.br
For multiple searches, use 
.B -b
between each search term. Incompatible with
.B -v
and
.B -h\fR\
\&.

.TQ
.B -t|--there
.br
Find your local time when it is
.B DATETIME
in
.B SEARCH\fR\
\&. Incompatible with
.B -v
and
.B -h\fR\
\&.

.TQ
.B -l|--local
.br
Find the time in
.B SEARCH
when it is
.B DATETIME
in your local time. Incompatible with
.B -v
and
.B -h\fR\
\&.

.TQ
.B DATETIME
.br
A future or past time to check. This parameter is passed to
.B date(1)\fR\
; 
.B wclock
handles setting
.B TZ
and passing the local time zone (or offset, if necessary) automatically. Input should not be quoted. Time is mandatory, and day is optional:
.B [DAY] TIME [DAY]\fR\
, where
.B DAY
can be a date, an English day of the week, or an English relative term \(em
.B tomorrow\fR\
,
.B next Thursday\fR\
, etc. As an example,

.B \t wclock -t 16:00 2021/07/17 -b minneapolis

shows the local time when it is 16:00 in Minneapolis on July 17th.

.B \t wclock -l tomorrow 12 -b luxembourg

shows the time in Luxembourg at 12:00 local time, tomorrow.

When passing 
.B DATETIME
with
.B --local
or 
.B --there\fR\
, all subsequent search arguments will have the check applied until
.B --local
or 
.B --there
is used again.

.TQ
.B -v|--version
.br
Display version and 
.B tzdata
compatibility information for
.B wclock\fR\
\&.

.TQ
.B -h|--help
.br
Display the help menu.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B date(1)\fR\
,
.I DOCDIR/wclock-0.1.3/INSTALL
.SH BUGS
\(lqAntarctica/Troll\(rq is unaccounted for in
.I SHAREDIR/wclock/compat
for performance reasons (affects systems with
.B tzdata-2014a
and earlier).

To report bugs, request additional entries in
.I SHAREDIR/wclock/extras\fR\
, etc., email the author directly or open an issue at
.B wclock\fR\
\&'s home on GitHub:
.UR https://github.com/pghvlaans/wclock
.UE\&.
.SH AUTHOR
K. Eugene Carlson 
.MT kvngncrlsn@gmail.com
.ME
